---
title: Lab 2024
mbid: lab-2024
credits: One O'Clock Lab Band
albumRelease: 2024-11-15
duration: 3960000
reviewDate: 2025-01-6
tracks:
- name: That Stank
  trackNumber: 1
  duration: 478000
- name: Lava Cake
  trackNumber: 2
  duration: 555000
- name: Darkness Within
  trackNumber: 3
  duration: 598000
- name: I Only Have Eyes for You
  trackNumber: 4
  duration: 555000
- name: The Stars on Second Avenue
  trackNumber: 5
  duration: 421000
- name: Itsbynne Reel
  trackNumber: 6
  duration: 430000
- name: cube music
  trackNumber: 7
  duration: 483000
- name: Turbulent Plover
  trackNumber: 8
  duration: 494000
---

# *{title}* by {credits}

## Prelude

Spotify has been caught using [fake artists](https://www.honest-broker.com/p/the-ugly-truth-about-spotify-is-finally) on its platform to pay real musicians less.
If you're now distrustful of the Spotify algorithm and would like a music recommendation from a *real* human for music performed by *real* artists, read on.
This is not a review.
It's just what I've been listening to for the past week(ish) and why I think you should give it a listen too.

## Provenance

I feel that if I'm claiming to be a real human recommending you this album, I owe you how I came upon it.

I had been craving some good big band music, and I remembered seeing The University of North Texas's One O'Clock Lab Band perform at a jazz festival years back (Greater St. Louis Jazz Festival, circa 2017).
I had really enjoyed the performance at the time, but I haven't listened to any of their music since (shame on me).
So I looked them up only to find they had recently released their annual album; how lucky.

For the unaware, the [One O'Clock Lab Band](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_O%27Clock_Lab_Band), so named for their rehearsal time, is one of seven jazz big bands at UNT.
If you're reading this recommendation on a Monday morning and need more reading material to procrastinate at work, their Wikipedia page is a worthy read.

## Why I like it

One benefit of getting a recommendation from a human is that I can tell you what I found compelling about the music.

If you're reading this recommendation while listening to the album, good, I don't have to tell you that the first minute or so of the album is absolutely killer.
It's stanky (like the title suggests) and spooky but still super clean.
If you're reading this recommendation in silence, or worse, with other music playing, shame on you.

Here are some highlights from the other tracks.
*Lava Cake* showcases each band section (trumpets, trombones, saxaphones) with their own tight and funky soli.
The band's rearrangement of the standard, *I Only Have Eyes for You*, is so catchy I found myself humming it to myself after only a few listens, and the singer's voice is so intoxicating.
My favorite track (I'll let you figure out which it is) begins its first two minutes with an Irish jig; the jig terminates with a sick breakdown into a fast swing, but better yet are the tight and crunchy chord voicings heard throughout the song.

One minor gripe I have with the album is that it feels like half a dozen solos are crammed into every chart; I know there aren't *that* many, but it feels excessive since we came here for big band music.

Considering there's been a dearth of new big band music for many decades now, I'm happy to have a band releasing high-quality modern jazz bangers annually (seriously, go check out the lab recordings from years past).
I'm particularly pleased with the album since it fills a musical niche not filled by the other two active jazz big bands (Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra and Gordon Goodwin's Big Phat Band).
JLCO is too curmudgeonly with their definition of jazz to play *this* kind of music.

I hope you enjoy the album; if not, maybe you'll like what I recommend next week.
